.TH k2hdkclinetool "1" "September 2016" "k2hdkclinetool" "K2HDKCLINETOOL"
.SH NAME
K2HDKCLINETOOL \- Interactive Command Line Tool for K2HDKC by Yahoo! JAPAN
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B k2hdkclinetool
[OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
k2hdkclinetool is interactive tool, this can test almost of K2HDKC library interface and k2hdkc cluster. Then you can create/modify k2hdkc cluster data by this tool. k2hdkclinetool has CUI interface, and command history, etc. You can see usage this tool by typing "-h".
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
display help
.TP
\fB\-conf\ [file\ path]\fR 15
specify configration file(.ini .yaml .json).
.TP
\fB\-json\ [json\ string]\fR 15
specify configration by json string.
.TP
\fB\-ctlport\fR [port]
specify slave node chmpx control port
.TP
\fB\-lap\fR
print lap time after line command
.TP
\fB\-capi\fR
use C API for calling internal library
.TP
\fB\-perm\fR
use permanent chmpx handle
.TP
\fB\-rejoin\fR
chmpx auto rejoin if disconnect
.TP
\fB\-nogiveup\fR
no give up auto rejoin
.TP
\fB\-nocleanup\fR
not cleanup backup chmpx files
.TP
\fB\-comlog\fR [on | off]
enable/disable communication command for debug
.TP
\fB\-d\fR [debug level]
print debugging message mode: SILENT(SLT)/ERROR(ERR)/WARNING(WAN)/INFO(MSG)/DUMP(DMP)
.TP
\fB\-dfile\fR [file path]
output file for debugging message(default stderr)
.TP
\fB\-his\fR [count]
set history count(default 500)
.TP
\fB\-libversion\fR
display k2hdkc library version
.TP
\fB\-run\fR [file path]
run command(history) file.
.PP
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBK2HDKCCONFFILE\fR
specify the configration file(.ini .yaml .json) path
.TP
\fBK2HDKCJSONCONF\fR
specify the configration json string
.TP
\fBDKCDBGMODE\fR
DKCDBGMODE environment sets debugging message level as same as \-d option. The value is set as SILENT, ERR, WAN, INFO or DUMP.
When k2hlinetool catches SIGUSER1 signal, the debugging message level is bumpup. The level is changed as order by SILENT, ERR, WAN, INFO, SILENT...
.TP
\fDKCDBGFILE\fR
DKCDBGFILE environment sets the file which is debugging message, this is as same as \-dlog option.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
k2hash(1), chmpx(1), k2hdkc(1)
.SH BUGS
.TP
Please report owner and comitter.
.SH AUTHOR
k2hash has been written by Takeshi Nakatani <ggtakec@gmail.com>.
